
   All Feature ArticlesEuropeEstoniaTallinnTallinn by the seasons: a…
   Featured Article
   Peter Dragicevich
   Lonely Planet Writer
   21 August 2019

Tallinn by the seasons: a year-round guide to Estonia’s capital

When you’re situated as far north as Estonia’s fairytale capital, each season
has its own distinct personality. Summer days seem to stretch forever, but so
do winter nights. Within their turreted old-town walls, the locals have
learned to cope with nature’s rhythms with season-specific traditions and
tailored festivals to get them through even the coldest of months.

   Why you should visit Tallinn in winter

Winter’s festive spirit

   If you think the frigid gloom of Baltic winter is an unappealing time
   to visit Tallinn, you’ve clearly never seen the snow glistening on the
   old-town roofs, or skated around the Harju Ice Rink under the shadow of
   13th-century St Nicholas’ Church.
   A Christmas tree covered in lights at night in the town square of
   Tallinn
   Tallinn's Town Hall Square is most festive at Christmas / Image
   courtesy of Visit Tallinn

   It was in 1441 that the unfortunately-named Brotherhood of the Black
   Heads (a guild for unmarried merchants) erected the world’s first
   publicly displayed Christmas tree on picturesque Town Hall Square. Each
   year in mid-November a huge tree is installed and decorated at the
   centre of the square, remaining there until nearly the end of January.
   A Christmas market is held at its base, full of stallholders selling
   local crafts, hõõgvein (mulled wine) and roasted sweet almonds. Another
   traditional Christmas treat, verivorst (a blood sausage wrapped in
   pig’s intestine), is more of an acquired taste.

   In Estonia, winter is a time for warming soups, stews, roast meat and
   sauerkraut – but if hearty stodge fails to take the chill off, locals
   indulge in their favourite naked communal pastime: sweating it out in
   the sauna. Many hotels have saunas for their guests, but the luxurious
   private facilities of Club 26, atop the Radisson Blu Hotel Olümpia, can
   be booked by anyone. The Kalev Spa Waterpark is a more egalitarian
   option, or for the traditional Russian banya (bathhouse) experience –
   complete with a birch-branch bashing – head to Kalma Saun.
   Yellow tulips growing in a flower box near the town square in Tallinn
   Spring in the air means colourful blooms start to appear around the
   city  / Image courtesy of Visit Tallinn

Spring in full bloom

   It takes a while for Tallinn to shrug off its white mantle, but any
   remaining icicles are bebopped away during the Jazzkaar Festival in mid
   April, showcasing Jazz greats from around the world. Neighbourhoods
   spring to life for community events such as Kalamaja Days, a mid-May
   block party with outdoor concerts and markets. Cafes start to arrange
   tables on the squares and restaurants garland their streetside terraces
   with flower boxes – while still ensuring that there are blankets at
   hand for customers to dispel any lingering chills. Spring produce
   transforms menus with the likes of wild garlic, sorrel, goat’s cheese,
   new-season lamb and rhubarb.

   The best places to see spring blooms are the Tallinn Botanic Garden, by
   the banks of the Pirita River in Kloostrimetsa, and gorgeous Kadriorg
   Park. Kadriorg, meaning ‘Catherine’s Valley’, is the formal garden of a
   tsarist-era palace, built by Peter the Great for his wife Catherine in
   the 18th century.
   Sandy beach near Tallinn with the cityscape in the background
   Take advantage of the warm weather by exploring the city / Image
   courtesy of Visit Tallinn

Summertime activities

   Summer is by far the most popular time to visit Tallinn; the warmer
   weather spawning an influx of cruise-ship passengers crowding the
   streets of Old Town. They’re usually all gone by early evening, so make
   like a local and head to the beach at Pirita or Stroomi during the
   middle of the day. Alternatively, head out on a kayak tour with the
   likes of Reimann Retked to Aegna Island. Return in the evening for al
   fresco dining in the city squares, feasting on the summer harvest of
   fresh vegetables and berries.

   Summer is also the prime festival season, kicking off with the
   medieval-themed Old Town Days in late May. The three Baltic capitals
   (Tallinn, Rīga and Vilnius) take turns to host Baltic Pride; Tallinn’s
   turn next comes up in June 2020.

   Estonia reserves their biggest annual celebration for magical
   Midsummer’s Eve on June 23. Although Midsummer has been given a
   Christian name (Jaanipäev, meaning St John’s Day), there’s more than a
   touch of the pagan to these communal gatherings around the bonfire,
   where you’ll still spot damsels with a garland of flowers or oak leaves
   in their hair. The sun barely sets at all and it’s considered very bad
   luck to go to sleep until the hour or so of twilight passes. While most
   Estonians prefer to escape for the countryside on Midsummer, the best
   place in Tallinn to experience the festivities is the Estonian Open-Air
   Museum in the city’s west. This wonderful expanse of coastal forest has
   been populated with heritage buildings, bringing the countryside to the
   city. Throughout summer, costumed staff demonstrate traditional skills
   amongst the transplanted farm buildings, windmills, taverns and
   churches.

   July’s Medieval Days bring jousting demonstrations and a costumed
   carnival to the edge of the Old Town, while Maritime Days moves the
   action to the city’s marinas and fascinating Seaplane Harbour. Things
   are rather more decorous during the Tallinn Organ Festival and August’s
   Birgitta Festival, a week-long series of classical music, dance and
   theatre performances held within the enigmatic shell of a ruined
   convent.
   An autumn scene of yellow and orange trees surrounding a lake in
   Tallinn's Park Kadriorg
   Autumn transforms sights like Kadriorg Palace with beautiful fall
   foliage / Image courtesy of Visit Tallinn

Autumn’s vibrant colours

   As the weather cools down, head to Kadriorg Park, the Tallinn Botanic
   Garden or the Open-Air Museum to see the leaves changing. Other good
   places include Kalamaja Park, to the west of the Old Town, and Viimsi
   Open Air Museum, a preserved 19th-century farm and seaside village in
   the city’s northeast. It’s also a brilliant time to take a day trip to
   Lahemaa National Park – the ‘Land of Bays’ – a blissful stretch of
   coastal forest 45km east of the city, crisscrossed with hiking and
   biking tracks.

   Autumn is hunting season, so expect game meats to begin appearing on
   menus. It’s also a prime time for foraging for mushrooms, a traditional
   activity which is something of a national obsession.

   As nights lengthen, September’s Wandering Lights festival turns
   Kadriorg Park into a fairyland, with light installations illuminating
   the palace gardens. Performers also brighten spirits on the main stage
   set up on Town Hall Square. Towards the end of the season, locals take
   their minds off the impending winter with the Black Nights Film
   Festival, held in mid November.

   Produced by Lonely Planet for Visit Tallinn. All editorial views are
   those of Lonely Planet alone and reflect our policy of editorial
   independence and impartiality.
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

Share this article:

Related content

   The best Bonfire Night celebrations in England
   Festivals

The best Bonfire Night celebrations in England

   Estes Park: your base for winter adventures in the Rocky Mountains
   Adventure travel

Estes Park: your base for winter adventures in the Rocky Mountains

   How sustainable tourism is thriving in Puerto Rico
   Art and culture

How sustainable tourism is thriving in Puerto Rico

   Mandarin Oriental will be installing mirrors that coach visitors
   through workouts in select hotels
   Health and wellness

Why these 5 hotels are considered the healthiest in the…

   Previous
   Plus size winter fashion: Stephanie Yeboah's guide to your ultimate
   travel wardrobe
   Travel gear and tech

Plus size winter fashion: Stephanie Yeboah's guide to your ultimate…

   Next

   Destinations
     * Africa
     * Antarctica
     * Asia
     * Carribean Islands
     * Central America
     * Europe
     * Middle East
     * North America
     * Pacific
     * South America

   Shop
     * Destination guides
     * Pictorial & gifts
     * Phrasebooks
     * Lonely Planet Kids
     * Non-English guides
     * Special offers
     * Delivery times
     * FAQs
     * Order status

   Forum
     * Country forums
     * Interest forums
     * Talk to Lonely Planet

   Interests
     * Adventure travel
     * Art and culture
     * Backpacking
     * Beaches, coasts and islands
     * Family holidays
     * Festivals
     * Food and drink
     * Honeymoon and romance
     * Road trips
     * Travel gear and tech
     * Travel on a budget
     * Wildlife and nature

   Travel Booking
     * Hotels
     * Flights
     * Insurance

   Subscribe

   Get 20% off at our online shop.
   ____________________
   I want emails from Lonely Planet with travel and product information,
   promotions, advertisements, third-party offers, and surveys. I can
   unsubscribe any time using the unsubscribe link at the end of all
   emails. Contact Lonely Planet here. Lonely Planet Privacy Policy.
   (BUTTON) Sign up
