
   All Feature ArticlesWith the Thomas Cook collapse,…
   Featured Article
   John Walton
   Lonely Planet Writer
   1 day ago

With the Thomas Cook collapse, what next for the package holiday?

With the collapse of Thomas Cook, is the traditional European
sun-sea-and-sand package holiday doomed? It’s almost unbelievable to imagine
a the world of travel without Thomas Cook, one of the stalwarts of the
package and low-cost tourism industry.

   Crowds of people stand in an airport waiting.
   Passengers of British travel group Thomas Cook queue at Son Sant Joan
   airport in Palma de Mallorca on 24 September © JAIME REINA / AFP /
   Getty Images

Thousands of holidaymakers stranded after Thomas Cook collapse

   The idea of such a historic company disappearing is a warning that
   others may follow suit during turbulent times for the travel industry,
   with oil volatility, ongoing Brexit uncertainty and – as the result of
   ordered Boeing 737 MAX aircraft being unavailable during its grounding
   – capacity concerns for next summer’s schedules.

   The European package tour has been an iconic option for decades. Seven
   nights with the family in a bucket-and-spade
   destination, lads-or-lasses holiday somewhere more lively or quiet
   pensioners' holidays in the sun to escape the depths of
   winter: northern Europeans have been heading south for sun in droves
   for nearly 70 years. Reform of the way non-scheduled airlines – in
   other words, charter operators like Thomas Cook – were regulated in the
   mid-1950s led to a boom in sunseekers everywhere from Helsinki to
   Hartlepool travelling to sunnier climes.
   People lay on the beach with umbrellas above them and the ocean in the
   background. Tourists enjoy a sunny day at the Playa de Palma beach in
   Palma de Mallorca © JAIME REINA / AFP / Getty Images

What has changed for package holidays?

   The wide availability of the Internet starting in the early 2000s drove
   several changes to the fundamental structure of the industry, just as
   the lustre was starting to wear off the popularity of the package
   holiday after the status-symbol-driven 1980s and 1990s.

   For a start, the low-cost carrier boom that had started in the
   mid-1990s went digital. Airlines including Ryanair and easyJet, broke
   the binary: you no longer had to choose between a scheduled airline
   like British Airways or Air France or a package tour operator like
   Britannia or Monarch. They also prompted established carriers to cut
   costs and offer cheaper packages of their own, either directly or
   through subsidiaries like Finnair’s Aurinkomatkat tour operator.

   The digital revolution also enabled companies other than the
   traditional tour operators to thrive – the dotcoms that started to
   dominate (and still do in many areas), started offering package tours
   in conjunction with a low-cost airline. Your author remembers a
   delightful snowy January package booking from London to Venice (via
   Treviso) flying Ryanair and staying at a local pensione
   bed-and-breakfast; this change to the entire way the model works rather
   took the traditional tour operators by surprise.
   A tow of planes with orange Thomas Cook logo on the back are shown in a
   row. Thomas Cook logos are pictured on the tailfins of the company's
   passenger aircraft parked on tarmac at Manchester Airport © OLI SCARFF
   / AFP / Getty Images

Are travellers still going on package holidays?

   The package holiday was and is still big business. Touring the airport
   at Gran Canaria earlier this year, airport management told me that
   their working assumption based on the number of tour buses using the
   airport is that some two fifths of travellers using the airport are
   still arriving part of a package holiday to the many resorts around the
   island.

   This is underscored by the fact that priority at pick-up and drop-off
   is given to the many brightly branded coaches collecting up to fifty
   passengers at a time: the parking lane directly next to the terminal is
   for buses, not car drop-off, and an impressive corkscrew brings these
   coaches directly down to the arrivals parking area to pick up the next
   load. Indeed, anyone driving into the tourist centre of Maspalomas on
   Gran Canaria will probably drive along the Avenida Touroperador Tui — a
   sign of both the historic and ongoing importance of these companies to
   the island.

   With a trend towards more specialised, intergenerational and group
   travel, and particularly since the rise of Airbnb and its competitors
   in the last decade, travellers are more used to booking their own
   accommodation and flights separately. But, within the EU and especially
   from the UK with its ATOL booking protection for package holidays, will
   the high-profile collapse of Monarch and now Thomas Cook affect the
   number of passengers booking packages?
   A screen shows the cancelled flights on an airport board. This picture
   taken on 23 September shows the cancelled flights of the Thomas Cook
   airlines at the Larnaca International Airport © IAKOVOS HATZISTAVROU /
   AFP / Getty Images

What is the future of package holidays?

   It seems certain that there is still a role for package holidays in the
   travel of the future, but perhaps not as we know them. As much as there
   is a clear trend towards authentic experiences for many travellers,
   there’s a competing trend where sometimes it’s just nice to have
   everything done for you on a trip, especially for those of us who are
   the unofficial family travel agents.

   Moreover, Airbnb has been something of a victim of its own success:
   there is backlash from communities turning into largely unregulated
   tourist hotspots and, anecdotally at least, there seems to be
   an unpleasant trend of late cancellations by hosts, leaving travellers
   in the lurch.

   If I had to look into a crystal ball, though, I’d predict that the
   remaining tour operators will become more nimble and specialised. It
   strikes me that there is little innovation in, say, package tourism
   friendly to the LGBTQIA+ market, Muslim families who require privacy
   for hijab-free holidays, and to the ever-growing
   premium-but-cost-conscious retiree travel market.

   Nor are there many options for larger accommodation suitable for
   intergenerational travel: separate bedrooms for granny and grandpa with
   fully accessible showers, and enough flexibility for extended family to
   be connected via adjoining doors between multiple single units, for
   example.
   Two women in orange Thomas Cook outfits chat, one visibly upset, as
   they chat next to a wall. Two workers of British travel group Thomas
   Cook speak at Son Sant Joan airport in Palma de Mallorca © JAIME REINA
   / AFP / Getty Images

   So raise a glass to Thomas Cook and its successors, and spare a thought
   for the many thousands of dedicated and hardworking employees who find
   themselves facing uncertainty about their jobs, as well as the
   travellers whose holidays are ending in stress or in jeopardy.

   John Walton is an international aviation journalist, follow
   him @thatjohn.

   Make sure you're ready for anything with travel insurance from our
   trusted partners.
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

Share this article:

Related content

   Five reasons to visit Iwate on your Japan trip
   Art and culture

Five reasons to visit Iwate on your Japan trip

   Pass the turkey and the football: why Dallas is the best city to visit
   for Thanksgiving
   Family holidays

Pass the turkey and the football: why Dallas is the best city to visit for
Thanksgiving

   11 family-friendly activities in Cape Town
   Family holidays

11 family-friendly activities in Cape Town

   Ağva offers both river- and forest-based adventure ©
   minemero/gettyimages
   Explore

6 of the best day trips from Istanbul

   Previous
   Learn about the Afro-Puerto Rican culture with a trip to the COPI
   Cultural Center © Lebawit Lily Girma / Lonely Planet
   Art and culture

How sustainable tourism is thriving in Puerto Rico

   Next

   Destinations
     * Africa
     * Antarctica
     * Asia
     * Carribean Islands
     * Central America
     * Europe
     * Middle East
     * North America
     * Pacific
     * South America

   Shop
     * Destination guides
     * Pictorial & gifts
     * Phrasebooks
     * Lonely Planet Kids
     * Non-English guides
     * Special offers
     * Delivery times
     * FAQs
     * Order status

   Forum
     * Country forums
     * Interest forums
     * Talk to Lonely Planet

   Interests
     * Adventure travel
     * Art and culture
     * Backpacking
     * Beaches, coasts and islands
     * Family holidays
     * Festivals
     * Food and drink
     * Honeymoon and romance
     * Road trips
     * Travel gear and tech
     * Travel on a budget
     * Wildlife and nature

   Travel Booking
     * Hotels
     * Flights
     * Insurance

   Subscribe

   Get 20% off at our online shop.
   ____________________
   I want emails from Lonely Planet with travel and product information,
   promotions, advertisements, third-party offers, and surveys. I can
   unsubscribe any time using the unsubscribe link at the end of all
   emails. Contact Lonely Planet here. Lonely Planet Privacy Policy.
   (BUTTON) Sign up
