
   All Feature ArticlesNorth AmericaUSAYosemite National ParkHow to
   photograph Yosemite like…
   Featured Article
   Robert Annis
   Lonely Planet Writer
   about 11 hours ago

How to photograph Yosemite like Ansel Adams

I’m a good photographer, but obviously no Ansel Adams. Adams had a unique
style – a way of photographing landscapes playing with light and shadow,
creating iconic images both stark and beautiful – and on a recent trip to
Yosemite National Park, I learned how to capture some of that magic myself.

   Ansel Adams laughs with a woman as he takes a photo of a waterfall; how
   to photograph Yosemite like Ansel Adams
   Famed landscape photographer Ansel Adams – seen here with Susan Ford,
   President Gerald Ford's daughter – is known for his shots of Yosemite ©
   George Rose / Getty Images

Find just the right angle

   Although Adams traveled the world, the place he’s most closely
   identified with is Yosemite – California’s most awe-inspiring location,
   made even more so by his photographs. The photographers who work at the
   nearby Ansel Adams Gallery have studied his techniques, and pass on
   that wisdom to thousands of amateur snapshot-takers and aspiring
   auteurs each year. Nearly every day, the gallery offers low-cost group
   clinics, teaching visitors to take better photographs.

   But I wanted something a little more. So I plunked down $375 for an
   afternoon private tour and lesson with one of the gallery’s pros. Can a
   four-hour one-on-one session with one of these trained tutors transform
   my images from ‘meh’ to magnificent? More importantly, will I see an
   increase in Instagram likes?

   I was on the fence about plunking down that much money until the day
   before, when I struggled to get the exact image I wanted at Vernal
   Falls. I had hiked more than eight miles round-trip, hoping for a big
   photographic payoff – I wanted the rushing water to have a creamy,
   cotton-candy look as it flowed over the edge. But because I was hiking
   mid-day, the slow shutter speed left nearly all my images overexposed,
   blowing out the whites of the water and leaving the rest washed out. I
   was determined not to blow another opportunity while I was in this
   cathedral of nature.
   The Half Dome is seen through some trees; how to photograph Yosemite
   like Ansel Adams
   Looking along the Merced River toward the Half Dome is an iconic
   Yellowstone sight © Robert Annis / Lonely Planet

Focus one-third in front of the main subject

   Photographer Kirk Keeler, who has been living near and photographing
   Yosemite for nearly 10 years, took me on my tour and tutoring session.
   Within five minutes, we were at our first location, a few hundred yards
   behind Yosemite Valley Lodge. The stillness of the Merced River
   mirrored El Capitan and the more distant Half Dome, the two most famous
   granite monoliths in Yosemite and perhaps the world.

   Instead of focusing on the center of the frame, Keeler suggested
   focusing about one-third in front of the main subject, which would give
   maximum depth of field to the remaining two-thirds behind it. Shooting
   in aperture-priority mode, Keeler also suggested I use an f-stop
   between F9 and F11, as that is the sweet spot for most lenses.

   Even in locations around the park where we seemingly didn’t need our
   tripods, Keeler urged me to use it. ‘The tripod forces you to consider
   your shot more carefully as you frame it (in the viewfinder),’ he said,
   before adding with a smile, ‘plus, Ansel used one.’ I quickly realized
   Keeler was right about the tripod; it made me slow down and ponder
   exactly what I wanted in my photo.
   A tree is backlit by sun and clouds as it is reflected in a river pool;
   how to photograph Yosemite like Ansel Adams
   Sometimes your favorite shot might not even be of one of Yosemite's
   famous icons © Robert Annis / Lonely Planet

Let the histogram guide you

   The most important lesson was paying closer attention to the histogram.
   Before, I’d pop off a few shots, take a quick glimpse at the back of
   the camera at what I’d just taken, then rush to take several more
   photos. But by looking at the histogram, I was able to see in real-time
   if a photo would be useable. If the clouds were blown out and flashing,
   I dialed back the exposure until I was able to capture them in all
   their fluffy glory. The rest of the image might be a bit dark, but
   that’s a quick fix during editing.

   For the rest of the afternoon we traveled down the river, trying to
   capture different vantage points of the two mountains and the waterway.
   Ironically, perhaps my favorite shot from the day wasn’t a towering
   mountain but a simple backlit and somewhat bare pine tree reflected in
   the river.
   The famous Tunnel View through the granite peaks of Yosemite; how to
   photograph Yosemite like Ansel Adams
   In addition to the light, you'll have to deal with other visitors if
   you want a photo of the famous Tunnel View © Robert Annis / Lonely
   Planet

Adjust with the light

   With the clock winding down on our session, we headed to the famous
   Tunnel View vista. Even with more than an hour to sunset, prime viewing
   spots were filling up. Luckily, we managed to find two spots along the
   stone barrier to set up our tripods and discuss our plan of attack. As
   the sun dropped lower in the horizon behind us, the light on the
   mountains changed; streaks began to appear on El Capitan, before
   bathing the range in a soft, buttery glow.

   As Keeler pointed out particular areas, I quickly changed lenses on my
   Sony A6500, going from wide-angle to telephoto and back, trying to
   capture specific details on the faraway mountains before the light
   disappeared. Then it did.
   A man takes a photo of El Capitan; How to photograph Yosemite like
   Ansel Adams
   The professionals at the Ansel Adams Gallery know the best ways to
   photograph Yosemite © Robert Annis / Lonely Planet

Lean on the lessons of a professional

   So was my afternoon photo excursion worth it?

   My only regret was having only a few kinds of shots; most of the photos
   I took had the same mountains and river, just from different angles.
   Keeler had planned to take me further down the river to an
   off-the-beaten path spot with rocks and swirling water, but an accident
   clogged the road, so we retreated to a different spot.

   In the end, that’s only a minor gripe. When you’re in the Yosemite
   Valley, El Capitan and Half Dome are the superstars.

   Nearly 400 bucks is a lot of money to a freelance photographer, but the
   tips Keeler gave me are already starting to pay dividends in my
   photography. Now if only my Instagram likes would pick up.
   El Capitan rises up above a river; How to photograph Yosemite like
   Ansel Adams
   The view of El Capitan from the bend in the Merced River is the perfect
   spot to shoot the granite monolith © Robert Annis / Lonely Planet

5 iconic spots to photograph Yosemite

   1. Valley View/Tunnel View: When you think of Yosemite, this is
   probably the view you’re envisioning – El Capitan and Half Dome staring
   at one another, with either the Merced River or a grove of pine trees
   in the foreground. Late afternoon and sunset are the best times for
   photographs.

   2. Vernal Falls: Getting to the top of Vernal Falls requires a 3.5-mile
   hike each way. The best vantage points are just off a steep and narrow
   granite path. Luckily there’s enough room in a few places to step off
   the trail and set up a tripod. This is one of the most popular hikes in
   the park, so be prepared to shoot around other tourists.

   3. El Capitan at the Bend in the Merced River: There’s no signage for
   the trail that leads out to this vantage point, so either ask around or
   study a map.

   4. Half Dome from the Glacier Point Viewpoint: Sunrise is the ideal
   time for photographing a gorgeous vantage of Half Dome. The best
   vantage points are on a large paved path, maybe a tenth-of-a-mile from
   the small visitor center.

   5. Sentinel Dome: Because Sentinel Dome has a 360-degree view of the
   area, it’s good for either sunrise or sunset photos. The Dome is an
   easy 1-mile hike from the trailhead. From there, you can continue on to
   Taft Point, which is nearly 3 miles from the Dome.
   Introducing Yosemite, Sequoia & Kings Canyon National Parks

Related articles

   The national parks are ‘America’s best idea.’ Here’s a quick look at
   each one

   Yosemite National Park: a guide to your first visit

   How to make the most of a last-minute trip to Yosemite

   Get more travel inspiration, tips and exclusive offers sent straight to
   your inbox with our weekly newsletter. Check out adventure tours for
   every traveller from our trusted partners.
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

Share this article:

Related content

   Estes Park: your base for winter adventures in the Rocky Mountains
   Adventure travel

Estes Park: your base for winter adventures in the Rocky Mountains

   How sustainable tourism is thriving in Puerto Rico
   Art and culture

How sustainable tourism is thriving in Puerto Rico

   6 of the best day trips from Istanbul
   Explore

6 of the best day trips from Istanbul

   The elegant lines of the Jama Masjid © saiko3p / Shutterstock
   Art and culture

A perfect day in Delhi: why you should give the…

   Previous
   The Kitayamazaki Cliffs are just one scenic highlight on the Sanriku
   Kaigan © HanaMai / Shutterstock
   Art and culture

Five reasons to visit Iwate on your Japan trip

   Next

   Destinations
     * Africa
     * Antarctica
     * Asia
     * Carribean Islands
     * Central America
     * Europe
     * Middle East
     * North America
     * Pacific
     * South America

   Shop
     * Destination guides
     * Pictorial & gifts
     * Phrasebooks
     * Lonely Planet Kids
     * Non-English guides
     * Special offers
     * Delivery times
     * FAQs
     * Order status

   Forum
     * Country forums
     * Interest forums
     * Talk to Lonely Planet

   Interests
     * Adventure travel
     * Art and culture
     * Backpacking
     * Beaches, coasts and islands
     * Family holidays
     * Festivals
     * Food and drink
     * Honeymoon and romance
     * Road trips
     * Travel gear and tech
     * Travel on a budget
     * Wildlife and nature

   Travel Booking
     * Hotels
     * Flights
     * Insurance

   Subscribe

   Get 20% off at our online shop.
   ____________________
   I want emails from Lonely Planet with travel and product information,
   promotions, advertisements, third-party offers, and surveys. I can
   unsubscribe any time using the unsubscribe link at the end of all
   emails. Contact Lonely Planet here. Lonely Planet Privacy Policy.
   (BUTTON) Sign up
