
Step 5

Add Useful Plugins

   Want to add a new feature to your blog? There’s a plugin for that!
   Plugins are ways to extend and add to the functionality that already
   exists in WordPress.

   Plugins can be thought of as tiny apps that enhance your blog’s
   functionality. WordPress has a ton of plugins, both free and premium,
   for you to select from. In fact, there’s a whole official WordPress
   Repository full of freebies that you should definitely check out.

How to Add Plugins

   Adding plugins to your WordPress blog is quite simple.
   Add New Plugin screen.

   Adding plugins to enhance functionality.
    1. Navigate to the WordPress Dashboard, hover over the Plugins menu
       item and click Add New. (Plugins > Add New)
    2. On the Add Plugins screen, you’ll find that you can upload plugins
       or search for free plugins using the search box located in the
       top-right corner of the screen.
    3. Once you’ve selected a plugin to install, click the Install Now
       button.
    4. Activate the plugin after it’s been installed.

   Installing plugins is quite unchallenging and after tinkering with
   their settings you can start using them immediately.

A Word to the Wise

   Take it from a plugin hoarder, it’s very easy to become addicted to
   installing and storing plugins to your blog site. I mean they’re so
   cool and there’s so many of them and they do so many cool things.

   One thing you need to remember is that you don’t have unlimited space
   on your server. Now 50 GB is more than enough to get your blog off the
   ground but it’s not enough for you to store hundreds of activated
   plugins on. I strongly suggest that you evaluate your blog’s needs and
   make a list of the most essential plugins it requires to deliver value
   to your readership.

   Instead of getting labeled as a plugin hoarder like me, thoroughly
   assess your desire every time you get the itch to install a new plugin.
   Believe me, it’ll save you a ton of space and your blog won’t slow
   down.

Some Essential Plugins

   Having said all of that, there are some plugins that you should install
   without question.
     * A contact form plugin — Contact Form 7 and Gravity Forms both work
       great.
     * A caching plugin — I’d recommend W3 Total Cache; it’s blazing fast!
     * An SEO plugin — Yoast SEO is hands down the best SEO plugin. There
       really is no competition.
     * Kiwi Social Sharing WordPress Plugin — Kiwi gives you tons of
       options and it’s super easy to use.
     * The Jetpack plugin — you can activate / deactivate its modules as
       per your requirement.

   Without a doubt, these plugins are essential to running a successful
   blog and you can install most of them free of charge. Fore more useful
   pluguins you can read our essential WordPress plugin guide.

Wrapping It Up

   There’s definitely a lot more to blogging than what this guide covers.
   Hopefully, we’ve provided you with enough information to get started
   with setting up your very own WordPress blog from scratch. We encourage
   you to explore WordPress further and leverage the powerful content
   management system to its full potential.

   Did this guide help you set up your WordPress blog? Would you be
   interested in a detailed guide to getting started with blogging in
   WordPress? If you have any questions or need help with a step, please
   don’t hesitate to ask us in the comments section below!

   If this tutorials wasn't enough to launch your first blog you might
   also read our other website setup guide which you can find here.

   If you are having problems with website setup, feel free to use our
   support forum.

   Tutorial last updated: November 9, 2018
