
Step 3

Set Up Your Domain Name and Hosting

   Click here to visit the Bluehost homepage to begin setting up your
   first blog. We'll receive a commission if you decided to purchase
   through these links.

   1. On the Bluehost homepage, you’ll find products in the menu bar.
   Hover over it and click on shared hosting.
   Bluehost's products menu.

   Select shared hosting from the products menu.

   2. You will be redirected to a page that gives you a brief overview of
   Bluehost’s shared hosting plan. Click on the green get started now
   button to proceed with the setup.
   Get started now button.

   Get started with shared hosting.

   3. Select your preferred shared hosting plan. We recommend you go with
   the basic plan for now.
   Bluehost's pricing table.

   Select the basic shared hosting plan.

   4. The next page prompts you to select a domain name and domain name
   extension for your blog — the fun (sometimes frustrating) part of the
   whole experience. Click next once you’re done.
   Domain name.

   Enter a domain name.

   5. Once you select a domain name that you like and is available, you’ll
   see a verification message on the next page notifying you that the
   domain is available and you can advance to the next step.

   6. On the same page, you’ll see an account information form that
   requires you to fill out your personal details.
   Bluehost form.

   Fill in your account information.

   7. Once you’ve filled out your account information details, you’ll be
   prompted to select/deselect options for your package in the package
   information form.
   Package information form.

   Tick all the features you’d like to opt for.

   Let’s quickly review the options you can select to enhance the
   functionality and security of your brand new blogging site:
     * Constant Contact. Constant Contact is one of the best tools to
       connect with your audience without hassle. It allows you to create,
       send, and track emails and newsletters to your readership. This
       isn’t mandatory, but if you think that you’ll be sending emails to
       your subscribers regularly then go for it!
     * Domain Privacy Protection. A domain name’s whois information is
       available for anyone to acquire on the Internet. Most of the time,
       marketing companies leverage this information and send a ton of
       unwanted solicitations your way. By selecting this option, the only
       visible information will be Bluehost thus preventing your whois
       information from being publicly available.
     * Site Backup Pro. This feature takes automatic backups of your blog
       regularly. I would strongly recommend that you leave this box
       ticked. Choosing to opt out would mean that you’d have to take
       manual backups using a plugin.
     * Search Engine Jumpstart. Since you’re just starting out with your
       blog, you can leave this box un-ticked. There’s no reason to start
       worrying about search engines just yet.
     * SiteLock Security — Find. This feature isn’t compulsory but it adds
       an additional layer of security to your blogging site. Check out
       the features it offers to determine if it’s right for you.

   Leaving the default options as they are is perfectly fine, too.

   8. The billing information form requires you to fill in your credit
   card number to complete the transaction.
    1. Bluehost accepts Visa, MasterCard, Discover, and American Express.
    2. Clicking on the More payment options link enables you to pay
       through your PayPal account.

   Billing information form.

   Enter your credit card information to complete the transaction.
    1. Once you’ve filled in your billing information, tick I confirm I
       have read and agree to the Terms of Service… box and click the
       submit button.

   Submit button to complete transaction.

   Click the submit button once you’ve filled out the forms.

   By now your hosting service and domain name are paid for. In the
   following steps, we’ll login to the Bluehost cPanel and use its 1-click
   WordPress install feature to install the CMS to our blog site.

   9. Using the login details emailed to you by Bluehost, sign in to the
   Bluehost cPanel.

   10. Under the website section on the homepage, click the Install
   WordPress button.
   Bluehost's cPanel.

   1-click WordPress install in Bluehost’s cPanel.

   11. You will be redirected to a new page with information about
   WordPress. Click the green Install button to continue with the
   installation.
   Green install button to complete WordPress installation.

   Click Install to proceed.

   12. On the next screen, select your newly registered domain name (it
   should be selected by default) to let the system know which directory
   you’d like to install WordPress to. Click Check Domain once you’re
   done.
   Selecting installation folder.

   Select your blog’s domain name from the drop-down menu.

   13. All that’s left is to enter your site’s name, your admin username,
   and a password in the next screen and you’re good to go! Click Install
   Now after filling out the form.
   Install button to initiate WordPress installation.

   Click Install!

   Note: Be sure to save your admin username and password in a text file.
   You’ll login to your blog using these credentials.

   Congratulations! By now you’ve successfully:
     * Registered a domain name.
     * Purchased web hosting for your blog.
     * Installed WordPress to your blog.

   14. Login to your blog site by clicking on the Admin URL that looks
   something like http://myblogname.com/wp-admin.
   WordPress Dashboard.

   Your WordPress Dashboard should look something like this.
