
Step 4

Customize Your Blog

   In this section, I’ll introduce you to the WordPress Dashboard and help
   you install a theme to increase your blog’s visual appeal.

An Introduction to the WordPress Dashboard

   The WordPress Dashboard can be quite overwhelming for first-time users
   but I promise you’ll get used to it sooner than you think. For the
   purpose of this post, I’ll cover the following items:
     * Activating a Theme
     * Writing Your First Post
     * Exploring the Media Library
     * Adding a User

   Sounds good? Let’s get started.

Activating a Theme

   We’ll start out by installing and activating a WordPress theme to our
   blog. By default, WordPress has its default theme activated (Twenty
   Sixteen as of this writing). We’re going to change the default theme to
   a more sophisticated and contemporary theme designed specifically for
   blogging sites. Enter Activello.

   Activello is a simple, multipurpose blog theme for WordPress designed
   by our exceptionally talented team. It’s got all the right features to
   get you started with a professional and modern-looking blog. Best of
   all it’s free! You can download it from here.
   Install Activello theme

   Upload the theme’s .zip file and click Install Now.
    1. From your WordPress Dashboard, hover over the Appearance menu item
       and click on Themes in the sub-menu. (Appearance > Themes)
    2. Once you’re at the Themes window, click the Add New button at the
       top
    3. Click the Upload Theme button and upload the theme’s .zip file.
    4. Once it’s uploaded, click Install Now.
    5. You will be redirected to a screen that notifies you of the status
       of the installation. Click the Activate link once the theme is
       successfully installed.

   You can leave it be or tweak it if you’d like to change a design aspect
   by navigating to Appearance > Customize. If you’re thinking of setting
   up a niche-specific blog then be sure to check out our complete
   collection of WordPress themes.

Writing Your First Post

   As a blogger, you’ll be writing a ton of posts so it’s important that
   you pay attention to this section to get the basics down.
   Adding a post.

   Post-ception!
    1. Hover over the Posts menu item and click Add New. (Posts > Add New)
    2. You’ll be redirected to the Add New Post screen which looks
       something like this:
    3. Add a suitable title in the text box that says Enter title here.
    4. In the big text editor below, add your post’s content. You’ll find
       that there’s a handy dandy toolbar embedded inside to help you
       format your post.
    5. Click the Publish button once you’re done.

   Voila! The post is published to your blog and everyone can see it now.
   How easy was that?

Exploring the Media Library

   The WordPress Media Library is a powerful tool that you can leverage to
   handle practically all of your media management. It stores all media
   files (images, videos, audio, and documents) that you upload to your
   WordPress blog regardless of whether it’s published or not.
   WordPress Media Library.

   The powerful Media Library.
    1. Click the Media menu item from the WordPress Dashboard.
    2. You will be redirected to the Media Library screen from where you
       can manage all of your media files.
    3. Click the Add New button at the top of the screen.
    4. Select a media item from your drive and upload it.
    5. The media item will be added to your Media Library and you can
       embed it in posts and pages now.

   The Media Library also lets you edit images from within WordPress —
   cropping, resizing, scaling – you name it. A blog post isn’t complete
   without a few relevant images to go with it!

Adding a User

   Seeing that you’re a dedicated blogger and are in high hopes of taking
   your blogging site to better frontiers (after all, you have made it
   this far down the post), there will come a time when you’ll need some
   outside help or in other words, you’ll want to outsource some of your
   work.

   Whether it’s to manage the technical side of your website or to add a
   few regular authors to your team, the best way to go about it is to add
   user accounts. WordPress enables admins to add users to their site
   which allows them restricted access to the blog’s back end (depending
   upon the user’s role).
   Add New User form.

   Fill out the Add New User form and select a user role.
    1. On the WordPress Dashboard, hover over Users and click Add New.
       (Users > Add New)
    2. The Add New User screen will appear and you will be prompted to add
       some personal details of the user you intend to add.
    3. Once you’ve filled out the details, select a user role from the
       drop-down menu e.g. Admin, Author, Editor, etc.
    4. Click Add New User.

   Your new user will be added to your site and they’ll receive an
   automated email containing their login information.
