
Air Traffic Controller (ATCo) [1]

   ENAC is the leader in ATCo training in Europe. Find all information
   about our initial refresher & development training offer here.
   Scan Tower

   If you need more information about ENAC ATCo, please contact us /// [2]

Initial ATC Training

BASIC Training

   Our 20-week BASIC course aims at familiarizing trainees with all
   aspects of Air Traffic Services by covering all subjects required by
   ICAO and Eurocontrol rules & recommendations.

   In order to incorporate this knowledge, trainees will develop technical
   skills using our « BASIC Tower » and « BASIC Surveillance » specific
   simulator training programs.

Aerodrome Control RATING training

   Our 10-week Aerodrome control RATING training course is designed for
   all students having successfully completed a certified BASIC course.

   The course program includes the necessary theory and practice to allow
   trainees to acquire the required competence in compliance with ICAO and
   Eurocontrol rules & recommendations.

   This course enables students to acquire ADI & ADV RATINGs on the
   European ATCo Student License and, ultimately, an ATCo Control Tower
   endorsement.

Approach Control RATING training

   Our 16-week Approach control RATING training course is designed for all
   students having successfully completed a certified BASIC course.

   The course programme includes the necessary theory and practice to
   allow trainees to acquire the required competence in compliance with
   ICAO and Eurocontrol rules & recommendations.

   This course enables students to acquire APS & APP RATINGs on European
   ATCo Student License and, ultimately, an ATCo Control Approach
   endorsement.

En-Route Control RATING training

   Our 16-week Approach control RATING training course is designed for all
   students having successfully completed a certified BASIC course.

   The course programme includes the necessary theory and practice to
   allow trainees to acquire the required competence in compliance with
   ICAO and Eurocontrol rules & recommendations.

   This course enables students to acquire APS & APP RATINGs on European
   ATCo Student License and, ultimately, an ATCo Control Approach
   endorsement.

Refrescher Training

ATC Refresher Training Course

   Our 1-week refresher training program includes:
     * 2 days for theoretical updates (latest rules, regulations &
       procedures in coordination with ANSp / client).
     * 2 days for Unusual / Degraded & Emergency Situation management
       using specific ENAC emergency checklists.
     * The 5th day deals with a specific topic in the ATM field, as per
       ANSp / client’s request (latest European developments, customer
       focus, local recent developments & procedures …).

   This program has been designed to contribute (on periodic basis) to the
   ATCo Licence re-validation process (subject to negotiation with
   relevant NSA).

Development Training

OJTI / On-Job-Training-Instructor training course

   This 1-week training course provides the trainees (experienced ATCos)
   with references and methods to analyze and improve instructor teaching
   skills.

   The course content focuses on two main areas:
     * Management of  technical and teaching aspects of an instruction
       session: before, during and after training session.
     * Management of  psychological and relational aspects of an
       instruction session.

   At the end of the course:
     * The trainee will be capable of preparing and managing dual
       controller training sessions with trainee controllers, including
       brief and debrief phases
     * Trainees will be able to assess trainee controller performance
       according to teaching rules and to formulate corrective actions
     * Trainees should be able to adapt their teaching styles to their
       trainee controllers

ATC Supervisor Training

   This 2-week training course provides trainees (senior ATCos) with
   relevant guidelines that will help them take on their new
   responsibilities, and focuses on the following aspects:
     * Management of psychological and relational aspects linked to OPS
       room supervision
     * Updated technical knowledge regarding systems the supervisor will
       be using, along with reviews of Aviation Law, Search & Rescue
       procedures, Air Traffic Flow and Capacity Management…
     * Specific cross-cultural awareness (ATCO – ATSEP) that will
       contribute to enhanced OPS-room / Technical supervision
       coordination

   ATC Supervisor training is a 2-step program:
     * Step 1: course delivered in Toulouse, including all general
       elements based on ENAC Generic Supervisor Manual & Checklists,
       along with aspects specified by initial training audit carried out
       by ENAC experts.
     * Step 2: assistance to implementation phase performed within client
       organization by French operational supervisors from DSNA (French
       ANSp).

Team Resource Management for ATCos

   This 3 day course has been designed for experienced ATCos, ATC
   instructors, ATC examiners and ATC supervisors.
   The course aims to:
     * Provide a good understanding of why the human factor is an
       essential component of safe Air Traffic Control
     * Help Air Traffic Controllers understand their role within the
       system and within their team
     * Give an introduction to Threat & Error Management
     * Highlight individual and collective mechanisms that may impact safe
       Air Traffic Control

Enhanced Cross-cultural training

ATCo - Pilot cross culture training

   This course takes advantage of the unique opportunity at ENAC where
   student pilots & student ATCos share the same campus. Our 3-day program
   provides ATCo students with an improved understanding of  cockpit
   environment and pilot needs, both in normal operation and in crisis
   management situations.

Advanced Master programmes

   More information about ENAC Advanced Masters offer here /// [3]


   Documents
   See as well
   Contact
   ATM Development & Prospective
   Greg Hindson
   atm-international@enac.fr
