
2. ExpressVPN

   Ranked as #2 overall, but #1 for speed
     * Dedicated torrenting profile: No (but all servers support P2P
       activity)
     * Works with: Netflix, Hulu, BBC iPlayer, DAZN, HBO GO, Amazon Prime
       Video, Showtime, Sling TV
     * Available on: Windows, macOS, Linux, Android, iOS, BlackBerry,
       Routers, Raspberry Pi, Chrome, Firefox, Safari, PlayStation, Xbox,
       Apple TV, Nintendo Switch, Amazon Fire TV, Samsung Smart TV, Roku,
       Chromecast, Nvidia Shield
     * Data logging: Strict no-logs policy

   We tested dozens of VPNs in multiple locations for speed, and
   ExpressVPN came out on top.

   ExpressVPN has 3,000+ high-speed servers at 160 global locations. It’s
   also the fastest VPN we tested, making it ideal for streaming and
   torrenting.

   The split tunneling feature allows you to tailor ExpressVPN to your
   needs by selecting which apps and services are encrypted. This is very
   useful if you want to have access to both local and foreign content on
   the same device.

   There’s more: ExpressVPN can help you access your favorite content even
   on platforms that don’t support VPNs. Thanks to the MediaStreamer
   feature, you can watch freely on your Smart TV, Amazon Fire TV, Apple
   TV, and gaming consoles.

   ExpressVPN supports P2P connections on all servers, so you don’t need a
   torrenting profile. The app’s Smart Location feature chooses the best
   server for you.

   ExpressVPN offers 256-bit encryption and OpenVPN support across all
   platforms, providing robust protection. Additionally, you get DNS leak
   protection and a Network Lock setting – in other words, a kill switch
   for your connection.

   ExpressVPN’s innovative TrustedServer technology guarantees that every
   ExpressVPN server always loads the exact same secure, up-to-date
   software, greatly reducing security risks. TrustedServer also allows
   ExpressVPN servers to operate using only RAM. Because the servers never
   write to the hard drive, it is impossible for any data to be stored on
   the server after a reboot—even accidentally. This offers unprecedented
   levels of security.

   ExpressVPN consistently bypasses the Great Firewall of China, so it’s a
   top pick for regions with heavy censorship, too.

   Customer service is also on point, with helpful 24/7 live chat support
   and detailed setup guides for the many supported platforms.

   Don’t Use If:
     * You are looking for a cheap VPN. ExpressVPN can be twice as
       expensive as some of the other VPNs on this list.

   ExpressVPN offers a winning combination of performance and
   privacy which is certainly worth the money. You can also take it for a
   risk-free test drive on three devices, courtesy of the 30-day
   money-back guarantee. In short, this VPN can easily satisfy even the
   most demanding of users.

   Don’t miss out on the best ExpressVPN deals around. Get the fastest VPN
   at 49% off with our coupons.

   Try ExpressVPN Now!

   Read our full ExpressVPN review to see what real users are saying.
