
   Top Destinations
     * London Hotels
     * Manchester Hotels
     * Birmingham Hotels
     * Edinburgh Hotels
     * Paris Hotels
     * Glasgow Hotels
     * Bristol Hotels
     * Nottingham Hotels
     * Rome Hotels
     * New York, NY Hotels
     * San Francisco, CA Hotels
     * Chicago, IL Hotels
     * Washington DC Hotels
     * San Diego, CA Hotels
     * Miami, FL Hotels
     * Orlando, FL Hotels
     * Moscow Hotels
     * Singapore Hotels
     * Beijing Hotels
     * Amsterdam Hotels
     * Las Vegas Hotels
     * Los Angeles Hotels
     * IHG Travel Blog

   Best price

   Book online or call:
   1 877 834 3613

   Costs 13p per minute + phone company's access charge
   Available on the App Store [Ljava.lang.String;@7be2c332
   For Wherever Life Takes You
   Learn more about our free apps and mobile websites

Book With Us Advantage

   Best Price Guarantee

   We promise you the lowest available price online, or we’ll match it and
   give you five times the IHG® Rewards Club points, up to a 40,000-point
   maximum.
   Online Reservation Guarantee

   Your room is guaranteed.
   No Booking Fees!

   We do not charge any booking fees for making reservations directly with
   us.
   Data Privacy and Site Security

   IHG takes your privacy seriously and works to protect you. All personal
   information you provide is encrypted and secure.

   IHG
   Selecting will reload the Kimpton® Hotels & Restaurants Website in this
   browser window.
   Selecting will reload the Regent hotels website in this browser window.
   Selecting will reload the Hotel Indigo Website in this browser window.
   Selecting will reload the Crowne Plaza Hotels & Resorts Website in this
   browser window.
   Selecting will reload the HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts Website in this
   browser window.
   Selecting will reload the Holiday Inn Website in this browser window.
   Selecting will reload the Holiday Inn Club Vacations Website in this
   browser window.
   Selecting will reload the InterContinental Hotels & Resorts Website in
   this browser window.
   Selecting will reload the voco hotels website in this browser window.
   Selecting will reload the Staybridge Suites Website in this browser
   window.
   Selecting will reload the Candlewood Suites Website in this browser
   window.
   Selecting will reload the avid hotels Website in this browser window.
   Selecting will reload the EVEN Hotels Website in this browser window.
   Selecting will reload the Holiday Inn Express Hotels Website in this
   browser window.
   Rewards Club

   Explore Our IHG Family of Brands

   Explore Our IHG Family of Brands
   Explore Our IHG Family of Brands

   © 2019 IHG. All rights reserved. Most hotels are independently owned
   and operated.

Cookie Usage and Settings

   The standard cookie policy for this website is to allow all cookies.
   This helps to ensure you have the optimal experience. If you would like
   to continue with our optimal website experience, you don't need to make
   any changes. If you would like to learn more about how we use cookies
   or change your settings, you can use the link at the bottom of any page
   at any time.

   Calls to 0871 numbers, when dialed from the UK, cost 13p per minute.
   Standard network rates apply. Calls from mobiles will be higher.
   Call (BUTTON) Cancel

   We are sorry, our system is temporarily unavailable. Please try again
   later or contact the IHG^® Rewards Club Customer Care Center for
   assistance.

   (BUTTON) ×

   Você está deixando nosso website da IHG^® em Português para o Brasil e
   entrando na versão em Inglês do nosso website para as marcas:
   InterContinental, Holiday Inn® Hotels & Resorts, Holiday Inn Club
   Vacations®, Holiday Inn Express® Hotels, Crowne Plaza® Hotels &
   Resorts, Hotel Indigo®, HUALUXE™ Hotels e Resorts, EVEN™ Hotels,
   Candlewood Suites®,Staybridge Suites® e IHG® Rewards Club.

   Você gostaria de visita a IHG.com Brasil para continuar em Português?
   Sim (Yes) Não
