
THEMES

   1) Cookies and other similar technologies

   Cookies and other similar technologies used by Sirdata are text files
   placed on the User’s Browser and manipulated via an identifier in the
   form 20171120_XXXX6b25e5164555f79bbb95865XXXX, which means the User
   cannot be identified directly.

   The Cookies and other similar technologies enable Sirdata identifying
   the Internet Browser of the Device in which they are saved, during
   their period of validity, to save and collect mainly the User’s
   browsing and interaction Data.

   These Cookies and other similar technologies integrate broad categories
   of information on the User such as the age range and/or the interests.

   They are used to improve Users’ browsing experience, for example by
   offering advertisements that are more appealing because they are based
   on their preferences.
   2) Hash of email

   Sirdata never collects the User’s email address in plain text (i.e. in
   the form john.doe@sirdata.com) but collects only the transformed email
   address using hash functions.

   This technique converts an email address in a character string in the
   form c52c40bb75bc6b3209cffac354d81b7a, enabling the pseudonymization of
   the information and creating simply a technical key associated with the
   User’s Cookie.

   This mechanism is deemed one-sided. Once the email address is converted
   in hash, it is no longer possible to retrieve the source email address
   based on the character string.

   The User’s direct identification is therefore impossible.

   Sirdata does not process any email address that hasn’t been converted
   in hash in its systems.
   3) Audience segments

   An audience segment means a set of Users, segmented by Sirdata in a
   pseudonymous manner and according to geographic (ie, audiences living
   in the WC2), demographic (ie, female or male), interest and/or intent
   criteria.

   This segmentation is based on the analysis of Users’ Data, and more
   particularly their browsing behaviours on the Sites they visit.

   Distributing these audience segments to Customers and Partners, Sirdata
   allows its Customers and/or Partners’ customers to reach Users with
   personalised contents and offers.
   4) Modelled Audiences

   A modelled audience means a set of Users, created by Sirdata or its
   Partner(s) in a pseudonymous manner and according to demographic,
   interest and/or intent criteria.

   Based on the behaviour pattern of Users whose demographic criteria,
   areas of interest or probable intentions have been determined, Sirdata
   or its Partner(s) can define browsing models to uncover other Users
   with similar demographic criteria, areas of interest or probable
   intentions.

   This results in Modelled Audiences that allow Customers and/or
   Partners’ customers to reach Users with personalised contents and
   offers.
   5) Examples of Data uses and purposes

   Targeted advertisement

   Sirdata uncovers the User’s intent to change, based on their browsing
   behaviors. Thanks to their Cookie Identifier, the User, when browsing
   later on, will be shown advertisement for subscription packages, in
   line with their needs.
   Site personalisation

   Sirdata uncovers User’s interest for football practice, based on their
   browsing behavior. Thanks to their Cookie Identifier, Sirdata’s
   Customer, a web merchant, can offer the User suitable sports articles
   when visiting its website without need for the User to carry out a
   search.
   Customer database enrichment

   Sirdata uncovers User’s intent for travelling to Hawaï. Thanks to the
   reconciliation of their hash of email, Sirdata’s Customer, a retail
   banking business, can offer the User – only if the latter is already in
   its database and has provided their email address – a personalised
   insurance package for travelling abroad at the right time.
   6) Sirdata’s Partners

   Within the framework of its activities, Sirdata connects to partner
   technological platforms (Demand Side Platforms, Data Management
   Platforms, personalisation platforms…)

   Sirdata transfers to them Users’ Data for it to be utilised by its
   Customers or by its Partners’ customers (advertisers, media agencies…).
   The latter are therefore able to pursue personalised marketing
   operations. The User can find out more about Transfer of Data
   hereunder.

   The User can find some of our Partners and links to their privacy
   policy on this page.
   7) Transfer of Data

   The Data we collect may be transferred to countries that are not part
   of the European Union, in accordance with our Confidentiality Policy.
   These Data may be transferred to companies within the Sirdata Group but
   also to our Sites Operators, Partners, Customers and Subcontractors.

   We are aware that personal data protection and privacy standards in
   countries that are not members of the European Union are different.
   Since we are likely, in relation to our business, to transfer Data from
   European residents outside the European Union, we require all our Sites
   Operators, Partners, Customers and Subcontractors to provide an
   adequate level of protection, in line with that required within the
   European Union, failing which, no data will be transferred to them.

   As we are committed to providing protection for Users’ Data and
   compliance with European regulations, an adequate level of protection
   for Data means that our Sites Operators, Partners, Customers and
   Subcontractors formally undertake to comply with data protection
   standards such as compliance with:
     * the EU-US Privacy Shield;
     * the standard contractual clauses adopted by the European
       Commission;
     * Binding Corporate Rules (BCR).

   8) Data Security

   We implement all the necessary security measures to protect Sirdata and
   Users from any unauthorized access, damage, disclosure or destruction
   of the Data we have gathered. We therefore use:
     * effective technologies, such as encryption, using SSL technology
       and hashing/encryption; finally, we have installed firewalls on all
       our networks to prevent any intrusion from malicious third parties;
     * internal audits on data collection, storage and processing are
       carried out regularly in order to check access to our databases and
       prevent any unauthorized system from accessing Sirdata systems;
     * restricted access to the Data collected, so that only Sirdata Group
       employees whose role requires them to view the Data are authorized
       to access them, in accordance with strict confidentiality
       obligations to which they are subject, on penalty of proportionate
       and appropriate disciplinary sanctions.

   9) Location

   Sirdata may collect Data relating to the User’s location through
   Cookies and other similar technologies.

   Sirdata may be able to deduce the User’s approximate location such as
   the country or city based on their IP address, although depending on
   their method of connecting to the internet and Internet Service
   Provider (ISP), the IP address assigned to their Device may change each
   time they connect.

   The collection of IP addresses is only used to locate the User
   geographically and is no more precise than the country from which they
   are connecting. We do not perform any geolocation and do not collect
   the GPS position of the User.

   It is also possible for Sirdata to obtain the zip code of the User
   based on the information communicated by the latter, when browsing the
   Site of one of our Sites Operators and in particular, if they have an
   account where this information has been completed.

   This Data can be shared to our Customers, Partners and Partners’
   customers for the purposes of presenting the User with relevant
   marketing operation (for example to offer the User situated in the
   United Kingdom advertisement in English language, or to communicate the
   User living in the south of London an offer for a local shop).

Get in touch

SirData

    20 rue Saint-Fiacre
   75002 Paris
   France

    1 Neal Street
   London WC2H
   United Kingdom

Talk to us

   +33 (0) 185 085 085
   Contact us

   +44 (0) 203 405 7205

follow us

     *
     *
     *


Personal Data

   Sirdata takes consumer’s privacy very seriously and complies with all
   applicable laws and regulations. Our particular model is privacy
   friendly, and does not collect or store any sensitive data in its
   process.

   Log In | Français
   Home | About | Contact | Jobs | Legal Mentions | Opt.Out | Français
   2012 - 2019 Sirdata.com
   iab arpp
   eprivacy

   Sirdata utilise des cookies et autres technologies similaires sur ce
   site aux fins d’analyses d’audience et d’optimisation marketing. En
   naviguant sur ce site, vous acceptez l'utilisation des cookies.
   Pour en savoir plus, consultez notre politique de protection des
   données dédiée. Continuer

   politique de protection des données dédiée

   (BUTTON)

Privacy Overview

   This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate
   through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are
   categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are as
   essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We
   also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how
   you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only
   with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these
   cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on
   your browsing experience.
   Privacy Overview

   This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate
   through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are
   categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are as
   essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We
   also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how
   you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only
   with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these
   cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on
   your browsing experience.
   Necessary Always Enabled

   Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function
   properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic
   functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do
   not store any personal information.
   Non-necessary
   [X] Non-necessary

   Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to
   function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via
   analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary
   cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these
   cookies on your website.

     * HOME
     * SOLUTIONS
          + Pretargeting
          + Enrichment
     * MONETISATION
     * PARTNERS
     * PRIVACY
     * Contact Us
     * About
     * NEWS
   #alternate alternate alternate alternate

   logo
     * HOME
     * SOLUTIONS
          + Pretargeting
          + Enrichment
     * MONETISATION
     * PARTNERS
     * PRIVACY
     * Contact Us
     * About
     * NEWS

   Logo-small

Data as a service

     * PRETARGETING PRETARGETING
     * ENRICHMENT ENRICHMENT
     * MONETISATION MONETISATION


   Intent signals
   Modelling
   Real time

Offering expertise in data services

   Supported by a solid network of publishers, Sirdata collects and
   processes the browsing data of web users. Through semantic analysis,
   Sirdata uncovers users’ intent and interest signals on each web page to
   score precisely their browsing behaviours and content consumptions. A
   unique know-how in building highly qualified audience segments for all
   marketing strategies.
   Sirdata enables publishers to monetize their sites’ traffic while
   empowering marketers with enriched client knowledge and fine-tuned
   data-driven strategies.
