
   Dans le cadre d'une opération FSMP/PSL, Timothy Gowers (Médaillé Fields
   en 1998, Royal Society 2010 Anniversary Research Professor à
   l'Université de Cambridge) sera accueilli 1 année. Il travaillera avec
   les équipes de l'IMJ, le DMA et l'IRIF. Ses thèmes de recherche sont,
   entre autres, la combinatoire et la théorie des nombres, la géométrie
   des espaces de Banach

2016 LAUREATES

   LAUREATE CHAIRE EXCELLENCE

   Sorin Popa, 6 months at IMJ-PRG
   Professor at University of California.

   His research interest are: Functional Analysis - Operator Algebras,
   Subfactor Theory, Ergodic Theory, Group Theory.

   Click here for his personal page.

   Click here for more information about his activities during 2016 and
   2017

   LAUREATE JUNIOR CHAIR

   Radu Laza, 6 months at DMA and Collège de France

   Associate professor at Stony Brook University, his research interest
   are: Algebraic Geometry, esp. moduli problems, degenerations,
   singularities, special classes of varieties (K3s, Calabi-Yau,
   Hyperkahler manifolds).

2015 LAUREATES

   LAUREATES CHAIRE D'EXCELLENCE

   Ehud Hrushovski, 9 month at IMJ-PRG

   University of Jerusalem

   Model theory and its applications

   For his personal page, click here

   During his stay, Ehud Hrushovski gave a course:Topics in pseudo-finite
   model theory.

   Clic here for more information about this course.

   Nader Masmoudi, 6 months at LAGA (with collaborations with Paris 6 and
   Paris 7)

   Courant Insitute, NY

   Partial differential equations

   For his personal page, click here

   LAUREATE JUNIOR CHAIR

   Zvi Lotker, LIAFA 6 mois

   Ben Gurion University of the Negev,

   click here for his web page

2014 LAUREATES

   LAUREATES CHAIRE D'EXCELLENCE

   Herbert Spohn, 6 months at CEREMADE (and collaborations with LPMA, MAP5
   and DMA)

   Professeur émérite à la Technische Universität de Munich

   Probabilities and mathematical physics

   For his personal page, click here

   Kevin Zumbrun, 6 months at IMJ-PRG (and collaborations with DMA and
   LJLL)

   Professor at Indiana University

   Partial differential equations

   For his personal page, click here



   LAUREATES JUNIOR CHAIR
   Antoine Mellet, LJLL, 6 months
   University of Maryland,
   specialist of DPE
   Click here for his personal page Lauren Williams, LIAFA, 6 months
   University of California, Berkeley
   specialist of discrete mathematics and combinatorics
   Click here for her personal page
   Click here to have a look on his course web page

2013 LAUREATES

   LAUREATES CHAIRE D'EXCELLENCE

                      Grigory Mikhalkin, IMJ, 6 months.
                           Université de Genève
     click here to have a look on his personal web page Anthony Patera,
                               LJLL, 6 montns.
                    Massachusetts Institute of Technology
             click here to have a look on his personal wab page



   LAUREATES JUNIOR CHAIR
   Dr Yves Capdeboscq
   Yves Capdeboscq, LJLL, 6 months.
   University of Oxford
   Click here to have a look on his personal web page
   Click here to have a look his symposium/courses web page Benjamin
   Webster, IMJ, 6 months.
   Northeastern University
   Click here to have a look on his personal web page
   Click here to have a look on his courses web page



2012 LAUREATES

   LAUREATES CHAIRE D'EXCELLENCE

   Michael Jordan and Gunther Uhlmann

   Michael I. Jordan, de l’Université de Berkeley, spécialiste
   d’informatique fondamentale (ses travaux touchent en particulier à
   l’apprentissage machine et à l’intelligence artificielle)

   Gunther Uhlmann, de l’Université de Washington, dont les travaux
   portent principalement sur les problèmes inverses en imagerie, les EDP,
   l’analyse microlocale, la théorie de la diffusion

   Cliquez ici pour voir les vidéos du cours de Gunther Uhlmann, Inverse
   Problems : Progress and Challenges.


   LAUREATE JUNIOR CHAIR

   Since 2012, the Junior Chair replaces the former Foundation's Prize
   program.

   For its first year, the Junior Chair awards two laureates. Each of them
   will stay for 6 months in a laboratory of the FSMP and will give a
   20-hours course of doctoral level. The laureates are :
   Scott Armstrong, from University of Wisconsin,specialist in nonlinear
   partial differential equations and stochastic homogenization.
   Click here to watch the videos of Scott Armstrong's lectures on
   Stochastic homogenization of Hamilton Jacobi equations.
   His personal web page, click here Bo’az Klartag, from University of Tel
   Aviv,specialist in analysis, convex geometry, high-dimensional effects.
   Click here to have a look on his personal web page

2011 LAUREATES

   LAUREATES CHAIRE D'EXCELLENCE

   Hélène Esnault and Peter Markowich

   Hélène Esnault, specialist of algebraic geometry and professor at the
   University d’Essen


   Peter Markowich, specialist of applied analysis and professor at
   Cambridge University and at the University of Vienna

   LAUREATE OF THE FOUNDATION'S PRIZE

   Foundation's Prize 2011: Ivan Nourdin

   For year 2011-2012, the Prize goes to Ivan Nourdin, from University of
   Nancy.

   Ivan Nourdin is a young researcher in Probabilities in University of
   Nancy. As the laureate of the Prize, he will make a extended research
   stay in the LPMA and give a course entitled Approximation gaussienne à
   l’aide du calcul de Malliavin, De la méthode de Stein à l’universalité
   in the Collège de France, 3 rue d'Ulm, 75005 Paris.

   Date and time of the lectures

   The lectures take place on Mondays January 23^th and 30^th, February
   6^th, 13^th, March 5^th, 12^th and 19^th.

   The first lecture, on Januray 23^th followed by a ceremony when the
   Prize has been officially given to Ivan Nourdin.
   Click here to see the video of the ceremony.

   Click here to watch the videos of the lectures.

   Click here to download the poster of the course.

   Click here to find the lectures notes.

2010 LAUREATES

   LAUREATE OF THE CHAIRE D'EXCELLENCE

   Sergiu Klainerman

   Sergiu Klainerman En 2010, la Fondation est heureuse d’attribuer cette
   Chaire à Sergiu Klainerman, professeur à Princeton et spécialiste des
   équations de la Relativité Générale d’Einstein.

   Membre de l’Académie des Sciences aux Etats-Unis, membre étranger de
   l’Institut (Académie des Sciences en France), ancien titulaire de la
   Chaire Blaise Pascal de l’Université Paris VI, Sergiu Klainerman est un
   mathématicien de renommée internationale, invité dans les plus grandes
   universités du monde entier. Sa carrière a été couronnée par de
   nombreuses distinctions dont le prestigieux Bocher Prize en 1999.

   Les équations d’Einstein, un défi pour les mathématiciens

   Le domaine de recherche de Sergiu Klainerman, l’analyse des équations
   d’Einstein, est un des grands défis mathématiques actuels. Son
   extraordinaire complexité a fasciné des mathé- maticiens et des
   physiciens théoriciens célèbres comme Roger Penrose ou Stephen Hawking.
   Sergiu Klainerman joue un rôle important dans le programme de recherche
   mis en oeuvre depuis 25 ans pour répondre aux questions aussi
   nombreuses que difficiles soulevées par ces équations d’Einstein, qui
   continuent de constituer un problème d’une grande richesse, en pleine
   ébullition et qui a connu récemment des avancées remarquables.

   Si, traditionnellement, le titulaire de la Chaire d’Excellence de la
   Fondation rejoint un labora- toire parisien, les travaux de Sergiu
   Klainerman ont suscité, de par leur actualité, leur variété et leur
   transversalité, l’intérêt de pas moins de trois laboratoires
   différents. Ainsi, lors de son séjour à Paris, le mathématicien
   américain collaborera avec des chercheurs de l’Institut de
   Mathématiques de Jussieu, du Laboratoire Jacques Louis Lions, et enfin
   du Département Mathématiques et Applications de l’Ecole Normale
   Supérieure.

   Pour en savoir plus sur Sergiu Klainerman, cliquez ici

   Retrouvez ici la vidéo de l'exposé de Sergiu Klainerman intitulé
   Mathématiques et relativité générale (in english).

   Sergiu Kleinerman's lectures online

   Click here to watch his lectures on Mathematical Challenges of General
   Relativity.

   LAUREATE OF THE FOUNDATION'S PRIZE

   Foundation's Prize 2010: Caucher Birkar

   The Foundation's Prize goes for year 2010-2011 to Caucher Birkar,
   university lecturer in Cambridge.

   The Foundation's Prize for year 2010 goes to Caucher Birkar, from
   University of Cambridge. His research fields are algebraic geometry and
   mathematical logic.

   Read more about Caucher Birkar...


   Clik here to watch the videos of Caucher Birkar's lectures on
   birational geometry.

2009 LAUREATES

   LAUREATES OF THE CHAIRE D'EXCELLENCE

   Ronald A. DeVore

   Ron DeVore Professeur émérite à l’Université de Caroline du Sud, à
   Columbia, Ron DeVore est spécialiste de tout premier plan de la théorie
   de l’information et de l’approximation. Iil a produit dans ce domaine
   des travaux remarqués. Décrit par ses pairs comme un mathématicien à
   l’ouverture et à la curiosité peu communes, Ron DeVore a exploré un
   large spectre mathématique. Ainsi, il a aussi abordé les équations aux
   dérivées partielles (EDP), ou encore la statistique moderne, obtenant
   des résultats impressionnants. Durant son séjour parisien, Ron DeVore
   développera un projet de recherche centré autour de questions cruciales
   dans le domaine du traitement du signal.

   Fidèle à sa vocation d’excellence, la Fondation Sciences Mathématiques
   de Paris se félicite de la venue dans ses laboratoires d’un
   mathématicien de cette envergure, dont le charisme et les
   exceptionnelles qualités d’enseignant marqueront aussi bien les
   étudiants que les jeunes chercheurs en début de carrière qui auront
   ainsi la chance de le rencontrer.

   Pour en savoir plus cliquez ici.

   Ron DeVore et Albert Cohen (Professeur à l'UPMC) ont organisé deux
   journées thématiques autour des Problèmes en grande dimension.

   Approach for the reduced basis method - Convergence rates (Wolfgang
   Dahmen, RWTH Aachen)

   Reduced basis and magic point for high dimensional approximation
   problems (Yvon Maday, UPMC)

   Approximation of functions of few variables in high dimension (Przemek
   Wojtaszczyk, Université de Varsovie)

   LOL : thresholdings and high dimensions (Dominique Picard, Université
   Paris-Diderot Paris 7)

   Sparse Occupancy Trees (Peter Binev, Université de Caroline du Sud)

   Adaptive and Nonlinear Designs for Large-Scale Multiple Hypothesis (Rob
   Nowak, Université du Wisconsin)

   Recovery problems in high dimensions (Martin Wainwright, Université de
   Berkeley)

   High dimensional classification by recursive interferometry (Stéphane
   Mallat, Polytechnique)



   LAUREATE OF THE FOUNDATION'S PRIZE

   Foundation's Prize 2009: Jérémie Szeftel

   The Foundation's Prize goes for year 2009-2010 to Jérémie Szeftel,
   previously visiting assistant professor in Princeton University. He's
   joined the Departement Mathématiques et Applications of the Ecole
   Normale Supérieure.

   Jérémie Szeftel's research deals with numerical analysis and partial
   differential equations theory. He works on the "L^2 curvature problem"
   in General Relativity.

   Jérémie Szeftel is giving a course entitled Autour de la conjecture de
   courbure L^2 en Relativité Générale from 10th of March to 26th of May
   2010. The lectures will take place everey wednesday from 9:30 a.m. to
   11h30 a.m. at the Collège de France's annexe located at 3 rue d'Ulm,
   Paris 5e. Click here to watch the videos of his lectures (in french).

   To know more about the laureate: http://www.ann.jussieu.fr/szeftel/


2008 LAUREATES

   LAUREATE OF THE CHAIRE D'EXCELLENCE

   Edward Frenkel, professeur à l’Université de Berkeley.


   Frenkel Spécialiste de Physique Mathématique de renommée
   internationale, ses travaux portent en particulier sur le programme de
   Langlands géométrique, les algèbres vertex, les théories de jauge et
   les sigma-modèles en théorie quantique des champs.

   Edward Frenkel a notamment été invité comme conférencier au Congrès
   International des Mathématiciens en 1994. Il a reçu de nombreuses
   distinctions, parmi lesquelles le prix Hermann Weyl en 2002.

   Pour en savoir plus cliquez ici
   Retrouvez ici la vidéo de l'exposé de Edward Frenkel Symmetry and
   Duality in Mathematics and Physics.

   Articles d'Edward Frenkel rédigés dans le cadre de la Chaire :

   1. Langlands duality for representations of quantum groups (with D.
   Hernandez), Preprint arXiv:0809.4453, to appear in Math. Annalen.
   2. Gerbal Representations of Double Loop Groups (with Xinwen Zhu),
   Preprint arXiv:0810.1487.
   3. Any flat bundle on a punctured disc has an oper structure (with
   Xinwen Zhu), Math. Res. Lett. 17 (2010) 27–37 (arXiv:0811.3186).
   4. A rigid irregular connection on the projective line (with B. Gross),
   Annals of Math. 170 (2009) 1469–1512 (arXiv:0901.2163).
   5. Langlands duality for finite-dimensional representations of quantum
   affine algebras (with D. Hernandez), Preprint arXiv:0902.0447, to
   appear in Lett. Math. Phys.
   6. Gromov-Witten Gauge Theory I (with C. Teleman and A.J. Tolland),
   Preprint arXiv:0904.4834.
   7. Gauge theory and Langlands duality, Bourbaki seminar talk,
   arXiv:0906.2747, to appear in Astérisque.
   8. Soliton equations, vertex operators, and simple singularities (with
   A. Givental and T. Milanov), Preprint arXiv:0909.4032, to appear in
   Funct. Anal. and Other Math.
   9. Formule des Traces et Fonctorialité: le Début d’un Programme (with
   R. Langlands and B.C. Ngo), Preprint arXiv:1003.4578, to appear in
   Annales des Sciences Mathématiques du Québec
   10. Geometrization of trace formulas (with B.C. Ngo), Preprint
   arXiv:1004.5323.



   LAUREATE OF THE FOUNDATION'S PRIZE

   Foundation’s Prize 2008: Sergey Neshveyev

   Neshveyev For the academic year 2008-2009, the Foundation's Award goes
   to: Sergey Neshveyev, Associate Professor, University of Oslo.

   The recipient is giving since 6^th February 2009 a course entitled
   Compact quantum groups and their representation categories. The course
   is about the operator algebraic approach to quantum groups, emphasizing
   the role of categories in the study of group actions, potential theory
   and differential geometry.

   The course is divided in ten two-hours lectures that will take place
   every friday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the IHP.

   For the first time the laureate's course has been recorded. The
   researchers and students who could not attend some lectures or the
   whole course are now able to watch the videos by following this link.

   To read more about Sergey Neshveyev and his current research :
   http://folk.uio.no/sergeyn/

   If you are interested to read his books "Compact Quantum Groups and
   Their Representation Categories" written with Lars Tuset, please click
   here

   The paper version in hard edition (co-edition Société Mathématique de
   France & Fondation Sciences Mathématiques de Paris) is available for
   sale on the SMF web site: list price 50 euros ($75), SMF Member price
   35 euros ($53) (excluding Shipping cost)
   http://smf4.emath.fr/CatalogueCommandes/CommandeEnLigne/?action=selecti
   on&listefascicule=10843&10843=1

2007 LAUREATES

   LAUREATE OF THE FOUNDATION'S PRIZE

   Foundation’s Prize 2007: Grégory Miermont

   Grégory Miermont was the first Foundation's laureate, in 2007. He was
   newly promoted Professor at Orsay University's Department of
   Mathematics (UMR 8628 Laboratoire de Mathématiques d’Orsay - CNRS -
   Univ. Paris XI - Paris-Sud), he spent one year in University Pierre et
   Marie Curie's Laboratoire de Probabilités et Modèles Aléatoires (UMR
   7599 CNRS, UPMC, UPD, www.proba.jussieu.fr).

   To know more about Grégory Miermont :
   http://www.math.u-psud.fr/~miermont/

   As 2007's laureate Grégory Miermont gave, from February to May 2008, a
   lecture entitled Cartes aléatoires in the Institut Henri Poincaré. To
   know more about Cartes aléatoires, click here.

SOCIAL_NETWORK

   [facebook.png] [twitter.png]
   Information Contact Sitemap Legal Information and Credits
   Return to top

   FONDATION SCIENCES MATHEMATIQUES DE PARIS 11, rue Pierre et Marie Curie
   75231F PARIS Cedex 05

   Tèl : +33(0)1 44 27 68 03 (ou 67 72)
   Fax : +33(0)1 44 27 68 02 (ou 68 04)
   #alternate

   fr
   en
   FSMP
   (BUTTON)
   ____________________ OK
   (BUTTON)

     * The FSMP
     * Students / Researchers
     * Corporate partnership
     * Media / non-specialists

Leonid Libkin - 2019

Courses

     * Scott Armstrong - 2012
     * Yves Capedeboscq - 2013
     * Ehud Hrushovski - 2015
     * Zvi Lotker - 2015
     * Sorin Popa 2016
     * Peter Markowich - 2011
     * Nader Masmoudi - 2017
     * Antoine Mellet - 2015
     * Grigory Mikhalkin - 2013
     * Anthony Patera - 2014
     * Alessio Porretta - 2015
     * Christian Schmeiser - 2017
     * Herbert Spohn - 2015
     * Gunther Uhlmann - 2012
     * Ben Webster - 2014
     * Lauren Williams - 2014
     * Kevin Zumbrun - 2015
     * Uri Zwick - 2018
     * Leonid Libkin - 2019

Recevez la lettre d'information

   ____________________ OK

   Télécharger la lettre d'information
     * Home
     * Students / Researchers
     * Courses
     * Leonid Libkin - 2019

   Leonid Libkin (University of Edinburgh), 2019 laureate of the FSMP
   Research Chair, is spending six months in Paris from September 2019,
   during which he is collaborating with the IRIF, DI ENS and Inria teams.
   In this context, he will give a course of 7 sessions of 1h30 entitled A
   modern theory of database query languages.
   The sessions will take place in room 3052 of the Sophie Germain
   Building, Université Paris-Diderot (1, place Auréie Nemours, 75013
   Paris).
   Click here to download the poster.

Schedule of the course

   - September 30^th 2019 from 10:30 to 12:00
   - Octobre 4^th 2019 from 10:30 to 12:00
   - Octobre 7^th 2019 from 10:30 to 12:00
   - Octobre 11^th 2019 from 10:30 to 12:00
   - Octobre 14^th 2019 from 10:30 to 12:00
   - Octobre 18^th 2019 from 10:30 to 12:00
   - Octobre 21^st 2019 from 10:30 to 12:00

Abstract of the course

   A modern theory of database query languages
   This short course presents a modern perspective on database
   query languages over complete and incomplete data. From the
   mathematical point of view, queries are mappings between finite
   relational structures (e.g., graphs), usually defined in logical
   languages such as first-order predicate logic. While this is the
   standard presentation, these days the theory of graph homomorphisms
   plays a prominent role in understanding query languages. In this short
   course, we mix and blend the logical and graph homomorphism views of
   query languages, showing how it leads to new and often simpler ways of
   proving classical results and deriving new ones.

Topics

   1. Finite structures, logical and procedural query languages
   2. Basics of graph and relational structures homomorphisms
   3. Conjunctive queries:
     * 3a: evaluation, containment, preservation
     * 3b: complexity and approximation

   4. Building up expressive power:
     * 4a: unions of conjunctive queries, preservation theorem
     * 4b: adding negation: inexpressibility of counting via 0/1 laws
     * 4b: adding counting: inexpressibility of recursion via locality

   5. Handling incomplete information:
     * 5a: exact evaluation and homomorphism preservation
     * 5b: certain answers and the lattice of cores
     * 5c: approximations and 0/1 laws

SOCIAL_NETWORK

   [facebook.png] [twitter.png]
   Information Contact Sitemap Legal Information and Credits
   Return to top

   FONDATION SCIENCES MATHEMATIQUES DE PARIS 11, rue Pierre et Marie Curie
   75231F PARIS Cedex 05

   Tèl : +33(0)1 44 27 68 03 (ou 67 72)
   Fax : +33(0)1 44 27 68 02 (ou 68 04)
   #alternate

   fr
   en
   FSMP
   (BUTTON)
   ____________________ OK
   (BUTTON)

   Accès rapides
     * Je souhaite faire un don
     * Documentation
     * Infos pratiques
     * Contact
     * Plan du site

     * La FSMP
     * Etudiants / Chercheurs
     * Entreprises
     * Grand public / Presse

Uri Zwick - 2018

Uri Zwick, chaire d'excellence 2018, donne un cours de mars à mai 2019.

Cours

     * Leonid Libkin - 2019

Recevez la lettre d'information

   ____________________ OK

   Télécharger la lettre d'information
     * Accueil
     * Etudiants / Chercheurs
     * Cours
     * Uri Zwick - 2018

   Uri Zwick (Université de Tel Aviv), lauréat en 2018 de la Chaire
   d'excellence de la FSMP, donne dans le cadre de son séjour à Paris un
   cours intitulé Games on Graphs and Linear Programming Abstractions, en
   salle 3052 du bâtiment Sophie Germain de l'Université Paris Diderot (1,
   place Aurélie Nemours, 75013 Paris), les mercredis de 14h15 à 16h15 du
   20 mars au 22 mai 2019.

Résumé des séances

   Cliquez ici pour un résumé global du cours.

   Séance 1 : Two-player Turn-based Stochastic Games
   In the first lecture we define the two-player Turn-Based Stochastic
   Games (TBSGs), the most general games considered in this lecture
   series. We define the objectives of the two players, the strategies
   that they can use, and define the values of the games. We then consider
   algorithms for finding the values and optimal strategies, first in
   one-player games and then in two-player games. While for one-player
   games polynomial time algorithms are known, for most two-player games
   no polynomial time algorithms are currently known.

   Séance 2 : Mean Payoff games and Energy Games
   In this talk we consider non-stochastic versions of the games
   introduced in the first lecture, namely Mean Payoff Games (MPGs) and
   Energy Games (EGs). We show reductions between these two games. We then
   describe a pseudo-polynomial time algorithm of Brim et al. for EGs, and
   hence also MPGs.

   Séance 3 : Randomized sub-exponential time algorithm
   In this talk we present an elegant randomized algorithm that solves all
   the games we consider in \emph{sub-exponential} time. This is currently
   the fastest known algorithm for TBSGs, and also for MPGs and EGs, when
   there is no restriction on the edge costs. The algorithm is an
   adaptation of a randomized algorithms of Kalai and Matousek, Sharir and
   Welzl for solving linear programs. We also mention relations to
   abstractions of Linear Programming abstractions.

   Séance 4 : Parity Games
   In this lecture we consider Parity Games (PGs), a very special case of
   MPGs, with many relations to automata on infinite words and to
   automatic verification. In a recent breakthrough Calude et al. recently
   obtained a quasi-polynomial time algorithm for solving PGs. We will
   describe one of the existing variants of their algorithm.

   Séance 5 : Acyclic Unique Sink Orientations (AUSOs)
   In this lecture we consider Acyclic Unique Sink Orientations (AUSOs) an
   abstraction related to linear programming that also captures the games
   we are interested in. We present algorithms for finding the sink of an
   AUSOs, which directly translate to algorithms for solving games.

   Séance 6 : Lower bounds for Policy Iteration
   Policy Iteration, introduced in the first lecture, is a very natural
   class of algorithms for solving TBSGs. Policy Iteration algorithms work
   very well in practice. However, we now know that their worst-case
   complexity is exponential. We will present such lower bounds.

   Séance 7 : Lower bounds for Random-Facet and Random-Edge
   In this lecture we present sub-exponential lower bounds for
   Random-Facet (the randomized algorithm considered in Lecture 3) and
   Random-Edge.

Retrouvez l'actualité de la FSMP
sur nos réseaux sociaux :

   [facebook.png] [twitter.png]
   Infos pratiques Contact Plan du site Mentions légales et crédits
   Return to top

   FONDATION SCIENCES MATHEMATIQUES DE PARIS 11, rue Pierre et Marie Curie
   75231F PARIS Cedex 05

   Tèl : +33(0)1 44 27 68 03 (ou 67 72)
   Fax : +33(0)1 44 27 68 02 (ou 68 04)
