

Nintendo 64 Flash Cartridges

   Nintendo-64-Flash-Cards

Everdrive 64

   Yet again Krikzz has created one of the best solutions for getting our
   gaming fix on another system. The Everdrive 64 is his SD card enabled
   Nintendo 64 cartridge which features fantastic compatibility and an
   array of exclusive features.

   The Everdrive 64 features an all important CIC boot emulator that
   emulates the CIC-6102 and CIC-7101. If you’re unsure on what this is,
   simply put it now brings the Everdrive 64 near perfect compatibility
   with every single game including even the more advanced N64 games such
   as Banjo Tooie.

   As various Nintendo 64 games had their own different type of built in
   save game functionality (for example, SRAM, SRAM128Kbyte, EEPROM16k,
   EEPROM4k, FlashRam), the Everdrive 64 has been programmed to support
   all of these. The Everdrive 64 usually detects what type of save memory
   is required per ROM, however, with this much power comes responsibility
   - and the only downside to this device. After playing through a game
   and saving your progress, you must hit reset before powering off the
   console and allow the Everdrive 64 enough time to write your save data
   to the SD card. This has since been fixed in the newer third version of
   the cartridge, but at an added cost.

   Also on board the Everdrive 64 is the unusual addition of emulator
   functionality. The Everdrive 64 has the ability to emulate Nintendo NES
   and Nintendo Game Boy games straight from the SD card via the Everdrive
   64 menu. Additional files are required for this, but they’re only a few
   clicks away.

   The main thing to keep in mind when purchasing an Everdrive 64 is which
   region console you will be playing it on. The PAL Nintendo 64 will
   require the CIC-7101 version, where by the NTSC will require the
   CIC-6102 version.
     * Storage: SD cards
     * Pros: Amazing compatibility, emulation features, gamepak save
       support.
     * Cons: Cannot use the same cartridge on both a PAL and NTSC Nintendo
       64, fiddly save game functionality

   Link: Buy Everdrive 64 V3 Flash Cartridge

   Link: Buy Everdrive 64 v2.5 Flash Cartridge

   Link: Find Everdrive 64 Flash Cartridge on eBay
