   #Chocolatey Search

   Chocolatey has a new look! Check out the blog post to learn about some
   exciting key features! (BUTTON) ×

   Chocolatey Software Chocolatey Software (BUTTON)

     * Overview
       Go Back

Overview
          + Why Chocolatey?
            Chocolatey is a software management solution unlike anything
            else you've ever experienced on Windows. Chocolatey brings the
            concepts of true package management to allow you to version
            things, manage dependencies and installation order, better
            inventory management, and other features.
          + How Chocolatey Works
          + Use Cases
          + Server
          + Desktop
          + Cloud / Containers
          + Integrations
          + Customer Stories
          + Puppet
          + Yelp
          + CME Group
     * Product
       Go Back

Product
          + Chocolatey for Business
            Chocolatey for Business (C4B) is the enterprise offering that
            enables companies to adopt a DevOps approach to managing their
            Windows environment, allowing you to deliver applications to
            your users more reliably and faster.
          + Pro Edition
            Pro is a personal, named license that grants having licensed
            versions of Chocolatey on up to 8 machines and provides the
            ultimate Chocolatey experience!
          + Open Source
            Chocolatey has the largest online registry of Windows
            packages. Learn how Open Source Chocolatey can support your
            next project.
          + Compare Editions
            Learn the difference between the Chocolatey Editions and what
            will fit your needs the best.
          + Pricing
          + Try Chocolatey for Business Free
          + Purchase
            I'm ready to get started now!
          + Support
     * Community
       Go Back

Community
          + Community Packages
            Search the largest online registry of Windows packages.
            Chocolatey packages encapsulate everything required to manage
            a particular piece of software into one deployment artifact by
            wrapping installers, executables, zips, and scripts into a
            compiled package file.
          + Community Resources
          + Chocolatey on GitHub
          + Blog
     * Learn
       Go Back

Learn
          + Install Chocolatey
            Get step-by-step instructions on how to install Chocolatey.
          + Getting Started Course
            New to Chocolatey? Learn the requirements and how to get
            Chocolatey up and running in no time!
          + Resource Library
          + Docs
          + Videos
          + Case Studies
          + Courses
          + Media Kit
          + Support
            Need help? Read our Support FAQ to find out the next steps.
          + Blog
          + Newsletter
     * Partners
       Go Back

Partners
          + Overview
          + Become a Partner
          + Technology Partners
          + Resellers
     * About
       Go Back

About
          + About Chocolatey
            Chocolatey Software is focused on helping our community,
            customers, and partners with solutions that help fill the gaps
            that are often ignored. We offer a simple, pragmatic, and open
            approach to software management.
          + Careers
          + Contact
     * Install Now Install Now

The Package Manager for Windows

Modern Software Automation

   Why Chocolatey Get Started Find Packages

Modernize

   Simplify software management with cutting-edge technology

Accelerate

   Rapidly create, test, and deploy critical updates

Integrate

   Integrate with existing cloud and on-premise technologies

Automate

   Easily automate your entire Windows software lifecycle

    1.
    2.
    3.

   Chocolatey Community

Choose from Thousands of Community Packages

   Chocolatey has the largest online registry of Windows packages.
   Chocolatey packages encapsulate everything required to manage a
   particular piece of software into one deployment artifact by wrapping
   installers, executables, zips, and/or scripts into a compiled package
   file.

   Package submissions go through a rigorous moderation review process,
   including automatic virus scanning. The community repository has a
   strict policy on malicious and pirated software. Read more.
   Search Chocolatey Packages

/

   Unique Packages / Total Packages

   Total Community Package Installs

   Known Good Packages
   Chocolatey Central Management Chocolatey Central Management

Chocolatey for Business (C4B)

   Chocolatey for Business (C4B) is Complete Software Management focused
   on three value-added areas - improved security, enhanced productivity
   features, and enabling more visibility. C4B is also backed with
   dedicated support, services, and roadmap.
     * Closely aligned to organizational use cases – rapid deployment &
       highly scalable
     * More visual interfaces (GUIs) & smoother user experience
     * Special advanced functionality i.e Package Creation, Package
       Internalizer, Package Audit, Package Synchronizer, Self-Service
       Installer
     * Easy migration path from open source
     * Deep integration with leading technologies

   Chocolatey for Business (C4B) has helped hundreds of system admins save
   time, reduce downtime, and accelerate deployment.
   Start Free Trial
   Dwight Bragdon at Qualcomm
   (BUTTON) ×

   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/R9OClPwBpdk

   "The two things I love the most are Package Builder and Package
   Internalizer. Both have saved us time and effort to bring the tools in
   to a non-interconnected area."

Qualcomm

   Dwight Bragdon, Senior Staff IT Engineer
   Chocolatey Integrations Chocolatey Integrations

The Sane Way to Manage Software on Windows

   System engineers spend hours deploying & configuring Windows software
   manually. Traditional tools are not built for modern automation and a
   DevOps approach, which can make achieving consistency and gaining
   insights across your environment difficult.

   There are a lot of different installer formats and multiple approaches
   to deploying Windows software. Deploying software without package
   management on Windows can be complicated and time-consuming.

   Chocolatey simplifies this through a simple, repeatable, and automated
   approach, by using a universal packaging format for managing all
   Windows software. It doesn't matter if you are using native installers,
   zips, scripts, binaries or in-house developed applications and tools –
   Chocolatey treats them as all 1st class citizens.

   Write once, deploy anywhere, with anything, and then simply track &
   manage.
   See Integrations

×

-

   > choco install docker-desktop
   Previous Next

Businesses Trust Chocolatey Software

   Many organizations face the ongoing challenge of deploying and
   supporting various versions of software. Chocolatey allows
   organizations to automate and simplify the management of their complex
   Windows environments. Our customers have experienced a massive
   reduction in effort, improved speed of deployment, high reliability,
   and comprehensive reporting.

    1.
    2.

   Yelp Yelp

Ryan de Temple

   Client Platform Manager at Yelp
   "We wanted to make sure our user experience was seamless. We wanted to
   provide a service, software, configuration- without user intervention,
   without restarts... Chocolatey allowed our engineers to build the
   products, to build the pipeline and deliver just that."
   Puppet, Inc. Puppet, Inc.

Mike Lombardi

   Software Engineer at Puppet
   "The single biggest thing I love about Chocolatey has to be the ease of
   use and reusablility. That has made all the difference for me. I don't
   have to remember 37 different ways to interact with my software... just
   the one- and that's it!"
   Previous Next
   Logo for Puppet, Inc Logo for Puppet, Inc
   Logo for Chef Software, Inc Logo for Chef Software, Inc
   Logo for SEEK Logo for SEEK
   Logo for Hulu Logo for Hulu
   Logo for Tricore Tricore
   Logo for Eau Claire Energy Cooperative Logo for Eau Claire Energy
   Cooperative
   Logo for Municipal Property Assesment Corporation Logo for Municipal
   Property Assesment Corporation
   Logo for The Sage Colleges Logo for The Sage Colleges
   Logo for Swiss Re Group Logo for Swiss Re Group
   View Customer Stories

Keep Up with the Latest Chocolatey Resources

   Case Study
   How I Completely Automated Managing Windows Desktop Software...Forever
   How I Completely Automated Managing Windows Desktop Software...Forever

How I Completely Automated Managing Windows Desktop Software...Forever

   Video
   What is Chocolatey What is Chocolatey

What is Chocolatey?

   Customer Success Story
   Mike Lombardi at Puppet Mike Lombardi at Puppet

Puppet

   Mike Lombardi, Software Engineer
   View All Resources

   Course Badges

Chocolatey Courses
