
[Me2.gif] Justin's Home Page

Welcome to my first attempt at Hypertext

   Howdy, this is twenty-first century computing... (Is it worth our
   patience?) I'm publishing this, and I guess you're readin' this, in
   part to figure that out, huh?

High Stylin' on the Wurld Wyde Webb

   This is a Hypertext server using MacHTTP v1.2.3 running on a Powerbook
   180 w/ 8 RAM and a 120 HD. It is currently being broadcast from the
   depths of Willets, a dorm nestled in the shrubbery here at Swarthmore
   College in Swarthmore, Pennisylvania.

   I put this together with MacHTTP and the assistance of NCSA's HTML
   Primer that was invaluable. I would recommend it to anyone who is
   interested in creating their own statements out here in the waste
   vastland. More general information about HyperText Mark-up Language is
   also available. For information about the World Wide Web and Mosaic,
   here's a recording of someone's voice: [sound.gif] here.

Swarthmore College Shit

   [Swat.gif]

Don't mind the dust, we're under construction

   As of January 22, I am trying to construct my first HyperText page.

   Take a look at Swarthmore's Gopher link. Or try this directory if you
   need to find the e-mail address of anyone here (Mosaic Users will have
   to use the search window in the upper right hand corner of your Mosaic
   window). Swarthmore, thanks to Eiji Hirai, even has its own home page
   and there is also another home page for the student run server.

   I have the worst ice storm here in decades to thank for learning
   HyperText! (Note: Philadelphia's January Ice Storm is not my creation.
   And neither is its follow up page, More snow in Philadelphia, as of
   January 26th).

Some Personal Shit

Me and Ollie North:

   [OlliePrev.gif] (I'm the dude on the left) Note: this is a real, not
   doctored photo, taken when he came to speak at the University of
   Delaware in October

   Rather than bore you with any more of my personal shit, I made a
   separate page.
