
   Julie Sweet

   Chief Executive Officer
   Meet our leaders

Awards and recognition

   GO TO AWARDS & RECOGNITION

   Year after year, Accenture is recognized worldwide not only for
   business performance but also for inclusion and diversity.

   RANKED NO. 36 ON

Fortune’s World’s Most Admired Companies

   17 consecutive years

   RANKED NO. 1 ON

Refinitiv (formerly Thomson Reuters) Diversity & Inclusion Index

   No. 1 for two consecutive years; included four consecutive years

   RANKED NO. 1 ON

Barron's 20 Most Sustainable International Companies

   Inaugural list
   View All
   View Less
   GO TO AWARDS & RECOGNITION

Ethics and corporate governance

   Personal integrity and legal compliance are essential to our operation
   as a global collective. Through our words and actions, we inspire trust
   and foster an ethical culture where every individual can thrive.

   We have a history of strong corporate governance, and we're committed
   to governance policies and practices that benefit our company and its
   shareholders.
   Meet our board
   Meet our board

Our core values

   Our values shape the culture of our organization and define the
   character of our company. We live the core values through individual
   behaviors. They serve as the foundation for how we act and make
   decisions.

Client Value Creation

   Enabling clients to become high-performance businesses and creating
   long-term relationships by being responsive and relevant and by
   consistently delivering value.

One Global Network

   Leveraging the power of global insight, relationships, collaboration
   and learning to deliver exceptional service to clients wherever they do
   business.

Respect for the Individual

   Valuing diversity and unique contributions, fostering a trusting, open
   and inclusive environment and treating each person in a manner that
   reflects Accenture's values.

Best People

   Attracting, developing and retaining the best talent for our business,
   challenging our people, demonstrating a "can-do" attitude and fostering
   a collaborative and supportive environment.

Integrity

   Being ethically unyielding and honest and inspiring trust by saying
   what we mean, matching our behaviors to our words and taking
   responsibility for our actions.

Stewardship

   Fulfilling our obligation of building a better, stronger and more
   durable company for future generations, protecting the Accenture brand,
   meeting our commitment to stakeholders, acting with an owner mentality,
   developing our people and helping improve communities and the global
   environment.
   View All
   View Less

In the news

   Discover how our people, services and innovations are making headlines
   in every industry, in every country, every day.
